---
layout: post
title: Week Ten
---
**1. What did I do last week?** 
<br>
In class Monday we went over the new Darwin Project as well as some new rules about designing our project class structures. The main point was that the usage of explicit getters and setters violates object oriented design goals due to its tendency to expose private fields and allow other classes to depend upon the object's implementation. Rather, descriptive behavior based action methods should be used that create a class interface based on the behaviors of the object and message passing through method calls. On Wednesday a software consulting firm called Pariveda visited class and gave us their spin on professional software development while promoting their company as a future employer. They definitely had a number of good points and I plan to look into selenium for automated testing very soon thanks to their talk. After class on Wednesday my partner Michael and I met to plan our project implementation and future meeting times.

**2. What was in my way?** 
<br>
My team initially misread the documentation and thought that we were free to design our own classes and hierarchies for the Darwin project rather than just sticking to the three classes of Creature, Species, Darwin. Our planned implementation required a GridManager and a Creature with an enum for creature types and a factory pattern for object creation.

**3. What will I do next week?** 
<br>
This week I will mostly focus on completing the Darwin project and getting a headstart on next week's readings.


**Tip of the week :** 
<br>
Last summer I did a lot of work developing Restful APIs and the software architect in charge of our project gave me a reading recommendation that was supposed to be very helpful in understanding the design of complex software systems and understanding the reasoning for many best practice decisions about coding conventions, class hierarchies, and communication structure within complex projects. He recommended that I read Roy Fielding's dissertation where Roy develops the REST protocol through a description of challenges that motivated his choices. I'm still rather early in the paper as it is quite lengthy and time is short during the semester, but I would definitely recommend giving it a chance if you are interested in becoming a software architect.