---
layout: post
title: Week Nine
---
**1. What did I do last week?** 
<br>
This week the Allocator project was due and I spent the majority of my time for this class writing tests for the project. My partner and I decided to create a block class to represent blocks of memories and to construct a custom block iterator for this class in order to simplify our work in allocating and deallocating blocks of memory. In addition, I competed in HackTx this weekend and my team and I came in third place, winning corporate prizes from Microsoft, Facebook, HBK Investments, CDK Global, and 1517. If you're interested in our application, please check it out on devpost at https://devpost.com/software/mosaic-6wp2bs

**2. What was in my way?** 
<br>
Our implementation of a block class for the project introduced about 12 new methods to the project and with the testing requirement depending on the average number of tests, this meant that we needed to write 45 test cases. This was a challenge, as most of our new methods were very simple, such as "begin()" and "end()" for the iterator and did not lend themselves well to helpful testing. Therefore, we spent most of the week trying to brainstorm unique test cases to legitimately reach the required number of tests in order to satisfy the project requirements.


**3. What will I do next week?** 
<br>
I plan to look into the Dependency Inversion principle mentioned in last week's paper and to try to research how I could better apply this principle to future projects.


**Tip of the week :** 
<br>
When going to Hackathons don't try to code the hardest thing that you can think of, rather try to think about what tools are available to you and your team and how you can utilize these tools to bring real value to people. I've seen plenty of people start off with great ideas and try to solve problems that huge companies like Microsoft and Google have already approached rather than focusing on whats new for their application. In my experience, the coolest things like cognitive analysis, image recognition, and real time translation already have great API's available that help beginners bring this functionality into their applications with little effort. Rather than focusing on reinventing the wheel, the hackers can then focus on combining these technologies that only experienced developers have used to create new projects that take the best qualities and features from many different tools and make them directly available to end users who don't necessarily have the technical savvy to use these generalized API's to solve their unique needs. 