---
layout: post
title: Week Six
---
**1. What did I do last week?** 
<br>
This week the biggest lessons in class dealt with operator definitions for c++ classes. Although developing these operators in practice will most likely feel intuitive, it feels very difficult when studying new use cases such as with iterators and the incredibally nuanced differences between definitions that differ from the single use of a unique character with a special case definition just in that context. After some frusteration with these syntactical special cases in  C++, I spent the remaining week wistfully reminiscing about my days developing in Java where the focus was readability and maintenance rather than fully optimizing performance. Apparently I can no longer use Norman's excuse that "The compiler optimizes my code," and will need to continue developing a detailed knowledge of c++'s idiosyncrasies before the exam.

**2. What was in my way?** 
<br>
This next week is the deadline of several major assignments in my other courses as well as the first test for this class, so my biggest difficulty lies in managing my time and resources and efficiently as possible to approach a very large amount of work. For this course the biggest challenge was a somewhat faulty wireless network card, which apparently took some damage during my bike accident and disconnected my computer from canvas during a quiz. 

**3. What will I do next week?** 
<br>
I will continue working around the clock on my Approximability and Parallel Algorithms courses, which have large assignments due Tuesday and Wednesday respectively. I expect to have at least some time to start reviewing the exam material Tuesday night and will immediately switch my priorities to reviewing past readings, my notes, the posted class code and notes, class quizes, as well as any somewhat relevant piazza posts.

**Tip of the week :** 
<br>
In Java there is a very popular annotation based extension to the language called Spring, which I believe makes interface driven design significantly easier and can help with the enforcement of the single responsibility principle. For example, one of the spring projects, spring-boot allows for server side web development with the abstraction of the Data Access Layer through an @Repository annotation, a business logic layer through @Service, and a web api layer through @APIController. Developers can then use the @Autowired annotation to dynamically change the objects placed into certain component types in bulk across their application through the use of string qualifiers. In addition, spring-boot specifically gathers up each of the components annotated and builds a web server with almost no environmental configuration due to the logical constraints placed upon each of the annotated classes.